---
layout: post
title:  "Life Update, Late Summer 2014" 
---

Okay guys, it'll be a little brief today because things have gotten really, **really** busy for me.

One of the biggest drains on my time has been my shooting hobby. On a week-to-week basis, I've been spending three hours every Sunday and spare minutes here and there througout the week planning and recording the Triangle Tactical Podcast with my co-host and producer Luke. I think it's safe to say that the project has gone much, much better than we ever expected. Going in to 2013, he set the goal to record and publish 52 episodes during the year. To help with that, in February of 2013 Luke started roping me in to helping record what had previously been a solo show. Before long we naturally settled in to a rhythm of producing an episode every week and since then have gone from Episode 14 to Episode 95 just last weekend. It's still slightly unreal to think of how many people listen to the sound of my voice every week, but it's one of the more rewarding things I've ever done.

Of course the shooting itself is taking up more and more time. I usually shoot a match every weekend somewhere in the area, which with travel taken in to account takes anywhere from 5 to 8 hours, basically being a full day's work outside in the sun. I love it, but it wipes me out and makes me useless for catching up on chores. The shooting itself is going well, and I'm winning local matches somewhat regularly.

I'm also starting to have to do a lot of planning for a big working vacation in just over a month to fly to St. George, Utah, two hours south of Las Vegas, to work on the crew for USPSA Handgun Nationals. I'll be out there for over a week, shooting the staff match on Monday and Tuesday and running the match for the paying shooters Wednesday through Sunday. As a chance to give back to the sport, get to travel all expenses paid to the mother church of modern practical shooting, and meet some of my shooting idols, it is an amazing experience. I almost didn't go, but an encouraging verbal push (while eating in a hole in the wall taco joint in the shady part of Durham) convinced me to join, and ever since then I can't imagine having passed up the opportunity.

Of course, I'm also spending time whenever I can practicing shooting, dry firing in my garage, which isn't happening nearly enough. Most of that is because I've finally committed to the long-overdue rewrite of my prototype dry fire timer app for Android. Once I get it in a somewhat working state, I'll be using it extensively myself to help work out the bugs, so I figure I'll be doing a lot of dry fire soon. 

Aside from those things, I also often find myself getting home well after dinner time because, for one reason or another, I ended up exploring some new corner of Durham near my work. I've been amazed at how much stuff there is to do and see and eat and drink that nobody told me about growing up in Raleigh. Just today I got my first barber haircut in a tiny (think 10'x30') shop tucked in the American Tobacco Campus. 

And now, I'm getting suckered back in to playing Dungeons and Dragons. My interest in the game has been waning for the last few years, especially as Fourth Edition got stale to me and shooting rose to take its place as my main hobby. Shooting hasn't really slowed down (as the first five paragraphs of this post betray), but Fifth Edition has just come out and I've been drafted to run a game for some players so they can see what it's all about. I don't mind it, but... I just have no idea where the time is going to come from. 

But I'll take it. Busy is good. 