---
layout: post
title:  "Unexpected Rewards"
---

Last week, I went to where the sidewalk ends, to where the train runs out of track, to the edge of the unknown. I achieved the goal, set for myself in May 2011, of making IDPA Master. Of course, that statement makes everything sound so binary, in a way that history always does and reality never is. I don't have a real idea of when I decided Master was in reach, but as a rank Marksman in May 2011, after finishing college I decided to get serious about IDPA as a sport. And although I was officially promoted to Master on 21 June 2014, in my walk down the path of mastery, it's an arbitrary milestone: I wasn't dramatically better when I shot the match on the 19th than I was on the 18th, and I wasn't a dramatically worse shooter then than I am today.

But that nuance is really hard to express, so we just use shorthands like "Last week I achieved Master."

As I reflect on the last two and a half years of weekly matches, dry fire sessions, and hours spent at the reloading press, what strikes me most is the richness the path to Master has brought my life.

For one thing, in mid-2012, I took a trip out to the middle of nowhere outside Benson, NC to shoot a match at H2O Fowl Farms. It was an early match and a long drive, and I remember being reluctant to make the long trip out. But in those days, I shot the IDPA match at The Range in Oxford on the first Sunday of the month and the IDPA match at PDHSC in Raleigh on the fourth Saturday. If I shot another match in the month, it'd be on the second weekend, and rather than go see the usual suspects in Oxford, I decided it would be better to branch out and go shoot at H2O where I'd been a few times before. But my confidence was tested when my alarm went off earlier on Saturday than it had on Friday and I had over an hour to drive to get there. 

At this match, I saw a fellow shooter whose face rang a distant, dusty bell. I couldn't quite place him then, but we had shot together at a small weekday evening match that didn't even really exist any more and when it had dissolved, the particular social group it brought together scatterd to the four winds and dozens of other matches in the area. 

I don't remember exactly how it came about, but one of us expressed recognition of the other and we got to comparing notes about where we'd been shooting, and then shooting sports news and gossip, and eventually contact information of some kind. Despite it being a hot summer day on a range with no shade, this mad bastard was wearing a black shirt. A black shirt bearing a logo and a few words: Triangle Tactical. 

His name was Luke, and over the next few months, we ended up talking and I became a big fan of his local shooting sports blog and podcast, hosted at triangletactical.net. Eventually I ended up becoming his co-host on the podcast, and since January 2013, we've been putting out an episode a week, whether we feel like it or not, up to episode 88 so far, with 100 in sight. Of all my creative output, this must be the one I'm the proudest of, simply because it has been both the most voluminous (the weekly schedule of this blog was modeled on the podcast) and passed through the minds of the most number of people of anything I've done. And although we have no formal goals for growth, the podcast gets a little bit bigger every week, with no end in sight.

Somewhere along this path, I also ended up branching out in to USPSA, the Shooting Sport That Must Not Be Named in certain IDPA circles. Despite what I was told, all those racegun-having gamers in USPSA are still nice guys, still welcome newbies, and still know how to put on a good match. I'm sure it would have disheartened me in the summer of 2011 if I had told myself that, after eventually making Master class in IDPA, my almost reflexive next goal would be A class in USPSA, which much like Master before it, I now know is within my grasp. As often as I run in to antipathy by fans of one sport towards the other, I really believe taking the middle path and shooting both has made me a more well-rounded shooter and given me an appreciation for the contrast between the two. It's like speaking two different dialects of the same language: it enriches your enjoyment of both.

But perhaps most significantly, my journey to Master and beyond has given me another friendship I never could have imagined in my wildest dreams. In March of 2013, after a handful of delays due to bad weather, I finally got my aunt, uncle, and cousin out to the range to teach each of them to shoot. Before I knew what had happened, they had bought a gun, and then another one, and I found myself foisting Uncle Bob in to shooting his first match. Since then, I've just been along for the ride. As he's rapidly developed as a shooter and become a more frequent match buddy, I've gained a friend, companion, and pupil, a relationship that would have never existed without my walking the path of mastery.

Last week, I quoted myself saying that by the time you achieve any goal of any meaningful significance, you'll be a different person than when you began, and at the time, I had no idea how true that'd be. I've achieved one goal, and have a trophy to mark the occasion, but in many ways, the greatest ornaments of my achievement are entirely intangible and unpredictable. I'm just grateful that I set out to accomplish something in my life, not because it was easy but because it was hard, and embraced the change and abundance that's come along with it.