---
layout: post
title:  "Full of Speed and Fury and Signifying Nothing"
date:   2015-05-26 11:41:00PM
---

For reasons I'm not entirely sure of, I've always been a fan of the Fast & Furious movies. Maybe it was serendipity... Watching the first one for a class science experiment (not joking). Watching the second one with a girlfriend in an upstairs bedroom. Missing the third one as my generation assumed it was a lame cash-in on the franchise. (Does it get any more gimmicky than drifting? *Seriously.*)

And then hearing Vin Diesel (*he plays D&D, you know*) was personally spearheading a new sequel and return to form with the original cast. It was like going home again. The old gang, new mysterious characters, and a slightly larger, higher stakes story. Then came the fifth and six movies, each one ratcheting up the heat with larger and larger characters, stories, and settings. New love interests, a revenge plot driven by the death of a beloved character... 

But then it soured with a ret-con resurrection and lame return to status quo, like the last few movies barely happened. The characters even eventually became hilariously wealthy to the point that they were only motivated by something greater than money. All of this during the years I went from 8th grade to a college graduate. It's like the series grew with me.

And then six ended with the noble sacrifice of one crew member and the death of another in a post-credits scene as a hook to the seventh (and the third; don't ask). 

And so the scene was set for Furious 7 to be the biggest, craziest installment yet. But at the same time, the returning ensemble was the smallest, most utilitarian main cast yet. The new blood introduced in recent films? Relegated to cameos. It even featured the most generic bad guy yet, and a bland technological macguffin caught up in a shadowy multinational feud. 

----

From the beginning, Paul Walker's character, Brian O'Conner, was a cipher for American WASPs everywhere. Not the "do what it takes" gray-area inhabitant of Vin Diesel's Dom Toretto, or the flamboyant jokester of Tyrese Gibson's Roman Pearce. Just a good guy trying to do the right thing for the people he cares about. He exuded the upstanding, hardworking American ideals our culture ascribes to.

So the news of the actor's death was obviously tough to take. It was like finding out your hardworking uncle who never asked for anything in the world and always put food on the table had been killed in a mine accident. He was the best of us and there wasn't anyone to replace him. At least that's how it felt from this side of the silver screen. 

The movie was thrown into jeopardy and the script had to be rewritten to handle the fact that his scenes weren't completed and they hadn't been planning to write him out at the end. Production was halted and the script was revised as they tried to find a way to resolve Walker's character. This denouement would turn out to be the one redeeming feature of this installment. 

They needed a way to wrap up the story of the clean cut American every-man who got caught up with this band of rogues and continued to risk life and limb beyond the point of plausibility. And so they let him follow the American ideal of making some money, finding a woman, having a few kids and settling down. The American Dream. Resolving the character that way would have been trite after one or two movies, but after seven, with tanks and helicopters and global spy networks, retiring to raise a family felt like a highly appropriate sendoff.

Unfortunately, the producers of the movie couldn't give this the delicate treatment it deserved. The last five or ten minutes of the movie are an overwrought, fourth-wall-breaking paean to the late Paul Walker that making it impossible to enjoy the movie as a story about characters. As a part of the tribute to Paul, [a song was commissioned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RgKAFK5djSk) to try to encapsulate the feeling of losing him. It manages that in its opening two lines:

> It's been a long day without you, my friend

> And I'll tell you all about it when I see you again

On its own, a crushingly genuine sentiment. As an understated overlay to the death of friend, it's a powerful message, but *only in its subtlety*. The music video for the song itself, festooned with cars and interspersed with clips of Paul (and Vin) from the movies, turns out to be a stirring sendoff. Showing the extended Toretto family in highlights from the film series and clips of Walker's trademark Nissan Skyline, it's a celebration of Paul's life. It concludes with a scene evocative of the traditional Missing Man formation, and a speechless final quarter mile between Dom and Brian, ending with Paul/Brian quite literally driving off into the distance toward the setting sun. Somberly touching.

As it happens, that same scene is how the movie itself closes, except this time it's with the overwrought context of coming after a non-sequitur summary montage of Brian's history and having some hamfisted dialog ("You don't think I'd let you go without saying goodbye, did you?") before the final race and the movie ending with the drive in to the sunset. The movie became so much about "honoring" Paul that it clumsily trips over itself and forgets to be an entertaining film.

Given the level of public awareness, at least among my generation, of who and what Paul Walker was and his grisly death, the movie didn't need to remind us he was gone. We knew. But instead of respecting the viewer and letting them imbue the story with as much emotion as they already had about him, it beat the audience over the head with mourning.

----

As for the film itself, the storytelling of Furious 7 inches forward one breadcrumb and deus ex machina at a time. Without discernible motivation, a film nominally about a group of outlaws doing what it takes to survive turns into a bland international political thriller where the cars serve simply as the highly-decorated interface between the characters and the world around them. Until, that is, that characters manifest previously unknown but plot-convenient, non-automotive capabilities like Brian being a highly skilled martial artist and Tej a capable mainframe hacker. At the same time, it relegates a few of the scarce characters to irrelevance, like making the strong wife of Mia an emotional albatross around Brian's neck and Roman the "face man" in to an unfunny farceur.

Cars get peppered with machine gun bullets with the drivers feeling no ill effects, one character just decides he's healed and bicep flexes his arm cast off, and the final climax is a battle between a progress bar and an egg timer. As the computer hack of the all-important macguffin tracks forward on screen as an automated process with percentage indicator, every few minutes in the movie the bad guys manage to blow up a car like whittling down the player's lives in Galaga. But at no point does the danger seem real. Rather than being hopelessly outgunned with only some good old fashioned American muscle against shadowy weaponstech, the climax just feels like a boss battle in an MMO that you have to tediously grind through. I checked my watch a couple times. Not joking.

----

As, uh, research for this article I went back and watched the one Fast and Furious movie I hadn't seen yet, the much-maligned and gimmicky Tokyo Drift (#3). Regarded after its release as not worth your time, it sat largely ignored, even after the fourth movie restarted my interest in the series. It's hard to know what my reaction at the time would have been if I'd seen the movie.  It probably would have struck me as an unoriginal, kinda-samey attempt to create a cheap imitation of the original crew, complete with aspiring rapper-turned-actor, young white male protagonist trying to do the right thing while often failing, and a forbidden love interest. The whole deal. 

But the third movie feels so delightfully simple and self-contained compared to the romping international danger of the seventh. During the course of the fish-out-of-water story told as the main character moves from the US to Tokyo, the viewer also learns the landscape, learns the rules of the game, and is set up for a not-completely-obvious climax that involves reminders of how dangerous every race is. In contrast to the seventh movie where the good guys get a new set of matching cars every thirty minutes, in Tokyo Drift, provenance and maintenance of cars is a not-insignificant plot element. The whole film feels more real with the reminders that cars, especially tricked out racers with sweet paint jobs, are a fragile resource that can be crumpled and dented and that street racing is a dangerous sport where people can die. 

I know they're making an eighth film. If you chart the trend line since the fourth one, the next one will probably be even more dull and meaningless. If they were smart, though, they'd take this as a blessing. Instead of trying to tell successively larger and larger stories about the same favorites, make them the movers behind the scenes that interact with a new crop of young, bright-eyed gear heads that just want to race and do the right thing and get the girl. 

Give us someone to care about.