---
layout: post
title:  "Locks, Picks, And Love"
date:   2015-06-02 11:00:00PM
---

So Paris has finally gotten fed up with people defacing their bridge by attaching locks to a historical landmark, and [yesterday started cutting off the locks and hauling off the metal grills](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-32939684) to be replaced with plexiglas panels. Love locks, as they're called, have become a sort of romantic fad, a millenial replacement for a wedding ring that shows your undying co-affection by attaching a padlock to a bridge and throwing the key in the river. 

This got me tumbling down the rabbit hole of the story of love locks that lead to a [genuinely interesting story](http://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/picking-the-bridge) about love locks in New York, picking them, the ethics of lock picking (Are those locks "in use"?), and a guy by the alias Deviant Ollam. From there it went even further in to the lockpicking subculture, or locksport as they've branded themselves.

Eventually I stumbled on this video from almost a decade ago where Deviant Ollam gives a really good [high-level overview of locks, lock picking, and counter-picking technology.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTgUVhjts2U) The spy-vs-spy element of lock companies iterating and pickers devising increasingly clever attacks is fascinating. I know it's two hours, but it's worth it. It's like a low-fi Netflix documentary on locks and picking. Skip the middle section about safes where the other guys talks for a while.

The scary thing is that it's made me keenly aware of both how ignorant I was of locks and how insecure the ones I was using were. When I flew to USPSA Nationals last fall with my match gun, a borrowed spare, and my carry gun all locked in a case, the case was secured with a matched pair of the weakest keyed lock shown in that video, a basic warded Master lock. The only way it could be worse would be if I were securing $1500 of guns with a $5 shimmable combination lock. 

Likewise, watching that talk gave me background to understand interesting features of other, not significantly more expensive locks, like the [Master Lock Speed Dial](http://www.amazon.com/Master-Lock-1500iD-Combination-Assorted/dp/B002TSN4SQ). Suddenly I realize the overmolded shape of it isn't just decorative or for added strength, it's for security and thwarting shimming. I already knew of the Speed Dial lock from when Steve Gibson mentioned it years ago on Security Now, comparing its mechanism to a hash function where you put in an arbitrary length input and it goes through the function and compares the output to a known previous result. (Presumably, like a hash function, it is possible for multiple inputs to have the same output, i.e. unlocking the shackle, but the odds of brute forcing any of the possible solutions appears to be quite low.) I've already ordered one from Amazon because gadget.

*(As an unrelated and yet recursive aside: one of the locks depicted in the picture accompanying the earlier article about picking love locks on the Brookly Bridge happens to be a Master Speed Dial. That one will have to be cut off. At least that couple picked a lock to symbolize their love that won't be easily defeated.)<sup>1</sup>*

The other interesting sort of epiphany is that the law makes virtually no distinction between caliber of lock. They require, for example, that when flying with a gun it has to be in a locked case, but literally any lock that isn't a TSA lock is allowed, because the regs *do* state that **only** the passenger can retain the key or combination. Similarly, imagining a scenario where I, not having a trunk in my car, needed to securely transport a handgun without having my Concealed Handgun Permit. Locking it with the warded Master lock complies with the generally accepted interpretation of removing the gun from being "about my person". In the cargo area behind the back seat in a bag, unloaded? Readily accessible. With a lock I could open in 5 seconds with the key? Out of reach. 

Not to mention the fact that anyone with the internet and a dremel tool could make a skeleton key for this type of lock in five minutes.

To make all of this weirder, I recognized Deviant Ollam as the star of possibly one of my favorite YouTube videos ever: [DEFCON 19: Safe to Armed in Seconds: A Study of Epic Fails of Popular Gun Safes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vIJFQO4DIxw). That video, in addition to being entertaining and well-paced, is a really good high-level overview of how to think about small safes, of the type to hold a couple guns. It's not even attempting to be a comprehensive guide to safes or safe cracking, but just a quick, entertaining 45-minute glimpse in to the mind that might possibly try to purloin your guns. If you take nothing else from me today, take that video. It's fun, it's funny, and it'll open your eyes. 

----

1. This type of symbolism seems quite rich. It also seems oddly meaningful that some lovers attached their lock to someone else's lock because there was no more room left by previous vandals. Doubly so when [they brought too small a lock](http://toool.us/images/lovelocks/02-italy_01_.jpg), not contemplating the full measure required to make such a permanent decision.<sup>2</sup> *(Picture credit to The Open Organisation of Lockpickers' [page on love locks](http://toool.us/lovelocks.html).)*
2. Irony alert.