---
layout: post
title:  "Ryan Holiday on Econtalk about Stillness"
date:   2016-07-20 7:30:00AM
---

<div class="quote">
"It's too hard for me to sit still to really meditate as much as I want. But I try to incorporate sort of stillness and quiet more in my life as I've gotten older. Like, I did this talk yesterday at a running store, and I was joking that we have a pool at our house and I'll get in it with my wife and all I'll want to do is swim laps. And she'll joke, like, it's being in the pool that is nice. You just have to be in it. You don't have to do anything. ... And so I'm trying to cultivate some of that stillness in my life, which I'm  hoping helps me think a little bit more calmly and serenely..."
	<div style="text-align:right; width:100%"><a href="http://www.econtalk.org/archives/2016/07/ryan_holiday_on.html">--Ryan Holiday on Econtalk</a></div>
</div>

Ryan Holiday, who I found through Tim Ferriss, was on Econtalk this week. I've been listening to Econtalk, unbroken, for at least 6 years. I think by that measure it's my favorite podcast. So to hear a relative newcomer to my world, Ryan Holiday, on it was a bit of a collision of worlds, but the podcast was very good, if light on economics talk specifically. It's a very nice high-level sample of Ryan's work and his attempts to bring the lessons of the ancient stoics to the modern day. 

The most surprising moment of the whole podcast was when he said the quote above though. I've read (well, listened to) his first book on stoicism, The Obstacle is the Way, and Ego is the Enemy has been inserted near the top of [my to-read list](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/51537951-ben?shelf=to-read), so the stuff on Stoicism was familar but nice. The moment where he talked about this resonated with me. I'm the same way. Virtually the only time I can sit physically still is at a computer reading, working, or watching match videos, or sitting on a couch reading a book. The rest of the time I'm trying to do something. If I'm bowling, I'm trying to figure out how to perfect my throw. If I'm cooking I'm tinkering with the recipe. It's interesting, and never a dull moment. But it certainly gets exhausting. 

He doesn't really mention how he's trying to work on it, but a problem well-stated is halfway solved.
